.TH FFSS-CLIENT.CONF 5 "2001 September 10"

.SH NAME
ffss-client.conf \-  FFSS client configuration file

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The ffss-client.conf if the configuration file for
.B ffss-client, 
the client for the 
.B Fleming File Sharing System (FFSS).
This file can be named 
.I ffss-client.conf
 or 
.I Client.conf
in the current directory when launching ffss-client, or 
.I /usr/local/etc/ffss/Client.conf
 or 
.I /etc/ffss/Client.conf.
.br
The syntax for the options is:
.br
.I   <option> <value>
.br
You can add comments, after the caracter '#'.
NOTE: you can't add comments on the option value, like:
.br
 master ffss   # a comment


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "master " IP " | " name
Specify the FFSS'master of your domain. You can specify the IP or the name.
.TP
.BI "ansi " 0 " | " 1
Specify if the ANSI sequences can be used. If the option is not specified, by default, the value is 0 for win32 and 1 for the others.
The ANSI sequences are used for colors, work well on unix consoles, but not on win32.
This option allows you to force the value.
.TP
.BI "debug " 0-6
Specify the debug level. 0 provides no debug information, and 6 ius the maximum.

.SH EXAMPLE

# master's IP or name
.br
master ffss

# indicates if can use ansi sequences (0 or 1)
.br
ansi 1

# the debug level: 0 for no message, 6 is the maximum
.br
debug 0


.SH FILES
.I ffss-client.conf
.br
.I Client.conf
.br
.I /etc/ffss/Client.conf
.br
.I /usr/local/etc/ffss/Client.conf

.SH AUTHOR
The FFSS client were written by Benoit Bourdin (bennyben)
<bennybben@caramail.com>. For further details, use IRC :
server irc.u-psud.fr, channel #ffss
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ffss-client (1),
.BR ffss-server (1),
.BR ffss-master (1)
