.TH FFSS-CLIENT 1 "2002 March 1"
.SH NAME
ffss-client \-  FFSS client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.na
.TP
.B ffss-client
[
.B \-v
|
.B \-\-version
]
.br
[
.B \-h
|
.B \-\-help
]
.br
[
.B \-L
.I server
]
.br
[
.B \-l
.I directory
]
.br
[
.B \-c
.I filename
]
.br
[
.B \-e
.I command
]
.br
[
.B \-d
.I debuglevel
]
.br
[
.B \-a
]
.br
[
.B \-m
.I hostname
]
.br
[
.B \-s
.I skinname
]
.br
[
.B \-b
.I file
]
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B ffss-client 
is a client for the 
.B Fleming File Sharing System (FFSS).
It allows you to browse domains, servers and shares using an intuitive interface.
.br
If you launch it without any option, you get a command prompt.
By default, you are on your domain (or in /$/none), where are all
the servers.
.br


.SH PATH FORMAT
.LP
The path format is not unlike unix filesystem, or samba filesystem,
but with a '$': /$/fleming, /$/ile/tahiti.
All paths are like: 
.I /$/<domain>/<server>/<share>/<path>
.br
In a domain, we have some servers (machines). Each server can share
one or more directories (shares). In each share we have some files and
directories.
.br
The
.B None
domain is used when you can't reach any master. When you do a listing
in this directory, it uses a broadcast to find servers. It can be useful
to list servers that are on the same local network.


.SH OPTIONS
\..PD 0
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Prints FFSS and FFSS-client's version.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Prints the usage string to standard output and quit.
.TP
.BI "\-L " server
List all shared directories of a server. For example, ffss-client -L orion
.TP
.BI "\-l " directory
List a ffss directory. For example, ffss-client -l /$/fleming/orion.
.TP
.BI "\-c " filename
Specify a configuration file to use.
.TP
.BI "\-e " command
Run a specified command. It can be some commands separated by a ';'.
.br
.I NOTE:
Be sure to escape caracters like ';'. Either, it will be interpreted
by your shell. If your command is more than one word, use '"'. For
example: -e "find foo".
.TP
.BI "\-d " debuglevel
Specify a debug level (0 = no debug, 6 is the max).
.TP
.B \-a
Disable ansi colors.
.TP
.BI "\-m " hostname
Specify the master, the hostname used to have server listings, and
to make researchs.
.TP
.BI "\-s " skinname
Specify a skin.
.TP
.BI "\-b " file
Specify a file for benchmark use. See
.B BENCHMARK
section for details.


.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.BI "ls [ " directory " ]"
List a (remote) directory, domain, a domain list or a share list.
Can list a specified directory.
.TP
.BI "cd " directory
Change the current (remote) directory.
.TP
.B pwd
Shows the current directory.
.TP
.BI "get " directory " | " file
Download the file, or the directory recursively.
Put it on the current local directory.
.TP
.BI "lcd " directory
Change the current local directory.
.I NOTE:
don't use !cd, use lcd instead.
.TP
.BI lpwd
Get the current local directory.
.TP
.BI "!" command
Execute a local command, by using the system() system call.
.TP
.B !
Launch a shell on the current local directory.
.I NOTE:
In this shell, if you change your current directory
(with local cd command), the new local directory won't
change after exiting this shell.
.TP
.BI "help [ " command " | set " variable " ]"
Get any help on specified or not commands. It can help on variable usage.
.TP
.BI "find " keyword(s)
Find a file over the network by using the correct master (of the domain).
If your current directory is a domain (/$/fleming for example),
the search is only done in this domain. If you're on /,
it's in all domains.
See
.B SEARCHING
section for details.
.TP
.BI "cat " file
Displays the content of a file.
.TP
.B close
Closes the current connection to a share.
.TP
.B exit, <Ctrl>-<D> key
Closes the current connection, uninits FFSS library and exits.
.TP
.BI "set " variable "=" value
Sets a variable to a value.
See
.B VARIABLES
for details.
.TP
.BI "alias " name "=" command
Add a new alias to a command.
.TP
.BI "unalias " name
Removes an existing alias.


.SH COMPLETION
.LP
You can using completion like bash using the
.I <tab>
key. There's some different kinds of completions :
.sp 1
.IP \(bu
.B command completion
- <tab> on 
.I command prompt
, or after the
.I help
command.
.IP \(bu
.B file/directory completion
- <tab> after the 
.IR ls ,
.IR cd ,
.IR get
or
.IR cat
command.
Files are completed only after the 
.I get
or
.I cat
command.
.IP \(bu
.B local file/directory completion
- <tab> after the 
.I lcd
or
.I !...
command
.IP \(bu
.B variable completion
- for example : 
.I set
<tab> or
.I help set
<tab>
.IP \(bu
.B value completion
- for a variable's value. For example :
.I set debug_level
<tab>


.SH SEARCHING
.LP
You can give any keyword but each keyword must be at least a
4 letters word. Either, it is considered as a file type.
A 
.B file type
is a 3-letter word, which can be 'avi', 'mp3' or 'zip' for example.


.SH VARIABLES
.TP
.B color
.br
value : 
.IR on / off
, default is 
.I on
.br
Determines if we can use ansi sequence to display colored messages.
.TP
.B debug_level
.br
value : 
.IR 0 / 6
, default is 
.I 0
.br
The debug level. Only used for debugging. 0 is used to have not debug
messages. 6 is the maximum.
.TP
.B disp_off
.br
value : 
.IR on / off
, default is 
.I on
.br
Determines if server whose state is 'off' can be displayed in the
server listing.
.TP
.B disp_quiet
.br
value : 
.IR on / off
, default is 
.I on
.br
Determines if server whose state is 'quiet' can be displayed in the
server listing.
.TP
.B master
.br
value : 
.IR hostname / IP
, no default
.br
The master, the hostname used to have server listings, and
to make researchs.
.TP
.B prompt
.br
value : 
.IR on / off
, default is 
.I off
.br
Determines if user is prompted at every download
.TP
.B skin
.br
value : 
.IR skinname
, default is 
.I default
.br
Specifies the skin to use.
.TP
.B broadcast_timeout
.br
value : 
.IR 1 - 120
, default is 
.I 5
.br
Specify the time (in seconds) the client waits for any answer to the broadcast
(listing in /$/None).
.TP
.B search_timeout
.br
value : 
.IR 1 - 120
, default is 
.I 20
.br
Specify the time (in seconds) the client waits for any answer to any
search on all domains (find on /).
.TP
.B operation_timeout
.br
value : 
.IR 1 - 240
, default is 
.I 10
.br
Specify the time (in seconds) the client waits for any answer to any
query to the master (or to a server).
.LP
For any help on skin-specific variables see the 
.B SKINS
section


.SH CONFIGURATION
.LP
To configure, just create a configuration file (see bellow) which
contains commands to execute at startup, like a profile script.
.br
.TP
Configuration filenames can be :
.br
.I ffss-clientrc
.br
.I clientrc
.br
.I Client.conf
(deprecated)
.br
.I ffss-client.conf
(deprecated)
.LP
These files can be located in the current directory, in
.I /etc/ffss
,
.I /usr/local/etc/ffss
,
.I /usr/share/ffss
(deprecated) or in 
.I /usr/local/share/ffss
(deprecated).
.br
It can be in your home directory too : 
.I $HOME/.ffss-client
,
.I $HOME/.ffss-clientrc
(deprecated) or
.I $HOME/.ffss-client.conf
(deprecated).


.SH SKINS
.LP
There's some skins you can use. To do another skin, spend 3 cups
of coffee while reading the ffss-client's code, write your own skin
and send me it.
.br
.SS SCRIPT SKIN
This is a basic skin, that can be used by shell scripts.
All fields are separated by a 
.I separator.
.br
.TP 8
.B VARIABLES
.RS
.PD 0
.TP
.B script_delim
value : 
.I any caracter
, default is 
.I ':'
.br
The field delimiter.

.SS HTML SKIN
This skin is used to generate html output, in particular for cgi mode.
See
.B CGI MODE
for details.
.br
All fields are on a table. There's no image nor colors. This is a basic html
skin.
.br
.TP 8
.B VARIABLES
.RS
.PD 0
.TP
.B html_prefix
value : 
.I any caracter
, default is 
.I ffss-client
.br
What the client put before an href. It should be http://your-site.com/path-to-ffss/ffss-client.
.TP
.B html_img_prefix
value : 
.I any caracter
, no default.
.br
What the client put before an image src. It should be http://your-site.com/path-to-ffss/img for example.
.TP
.B html_dw_prefix
value : 
.I any caracter
, default is 
.I ffss-client
.br
What the client put before a link to a ffss-shared file. It should be http://your-site.com/path-to-ffss/ffss-client.
.TP
.B html_firstarg
value : 
.IR on / off
, default is 
.I on
.br
Specifies if we can use '?' instead of '&' after html_prefix to specify arguments to
the CGI.
.TP
.B html_included_doc
value : 
.IR on / off
, default is 
.I off
.br
Specifies if the client can put <html> <body> and </html> headers. By default, it can.

.SS HTML_FLEMING SKIN
This skin, adapted from the html skin, is an example of an adaptation to a special
website. In this website, we have stylesheets, and all paragraphs/texts must be in
the 'small' style. Moreover, all pages are under this form : 
http://website/index.php?page=path-to-the-wanted-page.
.br
There's no variable specific to this skin.


.SH CGI MODE
To use CGI mode, be sure the client has been compiled with the 
.I --enable-cgi
option.
You can specify the 
.I --enable-cgi-downloads
option too.
After, just the program in a folder that allows CGI scripts, and try. It should
work well.
.br
The client can autodectect if it's in a CGI environment (the CGI mode is enabled)
or not. To see that, it looks for the 
.I REQUEST_METHOD
environment variable.
So, be sure you have not this variable in your shell environment before trying
to launch the client in a console.
.br
You can specify options in the url (ffss-client?myoption=myvalue&opt=val).
It's variables you can specify. You can use all html-skin-specific variable (without
the 'html_' prefix in the name) like ffss-client?firstarg=on&included_doc=off.
.SS CGI VARIABLES
.TP
.B skin
.br
value : 
.I skinname
, default is 
.I 'default'
.br
The skin name to use.
.TP
.B dir
.br
value : 
.I any ffss path
, default is
.I /
.br
Specify the current directory (the directory to list). It must be in ffss path format.
.TP
.B s
.br
value : 
.I keyword(s)
, no default.
.br
A keyword to search.
.TP
.B sdom
.br
value : 
.I any ffss domain
, default is 
.I none
.br
The ffss domain in which we must launch the research. By default, it's all domains.
.TP
.B master
.br
value : 
.IR hostname / IP
, no default.
.br
The ffss master to use for domain listing, server listing and research.
.TP
.B debug
.br
value : 
.I debuglevel
, default is 
.I 0
.br
The debug level (0=no debug, 6 is the maximum).
.TP
.B download
.br
value : 
.IR 0 / 1
, default is 
.I 0
.br
Specify if the dir is a path to a file to download.
.TP
.B can_header
.br
value : 
.IR 0 / 1
, default is 
.I 1
.br
Specify if we can send http headers, like 'Content-typ: text/html'.


.SH BENCHMARKS
You must compile the client with the 
.I --enable-benchmark
option.
It allows you to benchmark research.
.br
It adds a message after search that indicates the time spent to launch
a search request and get the answers.
.br
You can use the 
.I -b
option to the command line (see 
.B OPTIONS
section for details) to specify a file which contains a list of keywords
to search. After all the searchs, the client gives you the total duration.


.SH FILES
.I /etc/ffss/clientrc
.br
.I $HOME/.ffss-clientrc


.SH AUTHOR
The FFSS client were written by Benoit Bourdin (aka bennyben)
<bennybben@yahoo.fr>. For further details, use IRC :
server irc.u-psud.fr, channel #ffss


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ffss-server (1),
.BR ffss-master (1),
